I am Abraham Lincoln, born in 1809 in Hodgenville,
Kentucky, in the United States of America.
I was the 16th president of the United States
and one of the great American leaders. My
presidency was dominated by the American Civil
War.
My parents were poor pioneers, and I was largely
self-educated. In 1836, I qualified as a lawyer
and went to work in a law practice in Springfield,
Illinois. I sat in the state legislature from
1834 to 1842 and in 1846 was elected to Congress,
representing the Whig Party for a term. In
1856, I joined the new Republican Party and
in 1860 I was asked to run as their presidential
candidate.
In the presidential campaign, I made my opposition
to slavery very clear. My victory provoked
a crisis, with many southerners fearing that
I would attempt to abolish slavery in the
South. Seven southern states left the Union
to form the Confederate States of America,
also known as the Confederacy. Four more joined
later. I vowed to preserve the Union even
if it meant war.
Fighting broke out in 1861. I always defined
the Civil War as a struggle to save the Union,
but in 1863 I nonetheless issued the Emancipation
Proclamation, which freed all slaves in areas
still under Confederate control. This was
an important symbolic gesture that identified
the Union's struggle as a war to end slavery.
Later that year, I delivered the famous Gettysburg
Address at the dedication of a cemetery at
the site of the Battle of Gettysburg, a decisive
Union victory that had taken place earlier
in the year.
In 1864, I stood for re-election and won and
was conciliatory towards the southern states.
One year later the civil war ended costing
the lives of 600,000. Less than a week later,
I was shot while attending a performance at
Ford's Theatre in Washington DC and died the
next morning. My assassin, John Wilkes Booth,
was a strong supporter of the Confederacy.
I am a slow walker, but I never walk back.
I hope this is still the way the United States
is leading the world.